# ArgoCD Configuration

## Repository Structure

Our template Platform configuration follows a kustomize-based approach with the following structure:

**TODO: update below to latest structure**

```
manifests/
  base/                      # Base components for all environments
    argocd/                  
      base/                  # Base ArgoCD
        aks-clusters/        # Base AKS cluster configurations
        repos/               # Base repository configurations
      overlays/
        dev/                 # Development environment specific configs
          projects/          # ArgoCD projects for dev
          repos/             # Repository configurations for dev
        prd/                 # Production environment specific configs
          clusters/          # Managed clusters in production
          projects/          # ArgoCD projects for production
          repos/             # Repository configurations for production
```

## Configuration Details

### Base Configuration
The base configuration of ArgoCD is done in the `base` folder.
This folder contains all the general basic deployment configuration of ArgoCD.

### Base Clusters
The base clusters configuration is done in the `base/clusters` folder.
This folder contains all the general basic cluster configuration of ArgoCD.

### Base Repos
The base repo configuration is done in the `base/repos` folder.
This folder contains all the general basic repo configuration of ArgoCD.

### Overlays
The overlays folder contains all the overlays for the different environments.
Currently, we have:
- `dev` : Development environment
- `prd` : Production environment

You can add more overlays for other environments as needed.

### Version Management
The version folder contains the `kustomization.yaml` files that pull in the manifests from GitHub. When upgrading ArgoCD, update the URL to the desired version.
- `dev` folder: Contains configuration for development environment versioning
- `prd` folder: Contains configuration for production environment versioning

## Additional Components

### Declarative Cluster Configuration

Declarative Cluster configurations ensures easy deployment using azure workload identities. If cluster has to be redeployed, it will be automatically be re-added to ArgoCD.

To enable this the `azure-patches.yaml` file should be patched onto the configuration. A template has been provided, but it can be customized as needed.

Refer to this Guide to figure out how to do this

### Projects
All projects & RBAC can be configured in the projects directory.

### Declarative Repositories Configuration
Declarative Repositories Configuration ensures easy deployment using external secrets operator.

### Configmaps
The configmaps patches are generated by the kustomization file and can be found in config directory.
Refer to the [ArgoCD documentation](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/operator-manual/cluster-bootstrapping/) for more information.

### Applications
Each team should have their own application directories:
- `argocd-apps`: Contains all applications managed by ArgoCD (deployed with an app of apps pattern)
- `k8s-resources`: Contains all resources deployed by the ArgoCD application

## Installation and Management

### Installation

Initial installation of ArgoCD is done with the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -k manifests/argocd
```
After this command is executed, ArgoCD will be installed in the `argocd` namespace.

### Upgrade
Before upgrading ArgoCD, please refer to the [tested version](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/installation/#supported-versions).

To upgrade, update the version reference in the appropriate `version/{env}/kustomization.yaml` file and apply the changes.

### Recovery
If the ArgoCD installation is corrupted or the cluster is redeployed, it can be recovered with the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -k manifests/argocd
```
When the main cluster is redeployed, we only need to redeploy our argocd application and all other applications will be deployed automatically.

## References

For more information, refer to the [ArgoCD documentation](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/operator-manual/cluster-bootstrapping/).